Tell me about your last project:

Hello everyone, as we all know, the
project has taken longer than expected,
so the Company has hired 2 SSRS
Developers from China to finish the
project.

I will be going over what we did in
Stories 7-9 and our 2 new developers
will complete Story 10:

For Story 7, the Loan Department
Executive
required BI Analytical reports on a
week-to-date, month-to-date and
year-to-date basis so that she could
manage the loan processing business a
lot better than currently. She wanted
to know the Loans to Date for Total
loans, the Purpose of the loan, the
Loan amount breakdown and the Property
usage.

For all the reports Story 7-9, I
created 6 parameters, so the report
user can filter the data by Report
Date, by Loan Amount, Loan Purpose,
Property Usage, Age, Marital Status,
Age, and Sex.

Of course, having the 6 parameters
means that the report user can filter
out what they want to see, whether by
Age, loan amount, Loan Purpose,
Property Usage, and so forth.

For the Loan To Date requirement I
created a Loans To Date Dashboard and
this included subreports like a Pie
Chart that shows the user the number of
loans to Date and the number of loans
on any given date. 

In order to fulfill the requirement for
week-to-date, month-to-date and
year-to-date reports, I created 3
stacked column charts for this
Dashboard.

From the SQL side of things, I created
a stored procedure for
LoansProcessed_ToDate, which services
all for reports.

Story 8 was basically a continuation of
Story 7, where the Department Executive
wanted to know the Loans-to-date for
Demographics like Marital Status, Race,
and Sex. Here I created 4 stacked
column charts using the the same
LoansProcessed_ToDate stored
procedure.

Story 9 was a bit more complex and
required additional Stored Procedures
for LoanGauges, LoansByMonth,
LoansByQuarter, and the Avg Loan's
Monthly Income By Month.

I created the Loan Overview Dashboard
which consists of 3 subreports,
namely: 

the Gauge Subreport that shows the MTD
vs Prior 6 Month Avg, the Last Mth vs
Prior 6 Mth Avg, and the QTD vs Last
Full Quarter, loans.

The Area Chart Subreport shows the Avg
Loan and its % of Monthly Income By
Month.

THe 3D Clustered Cylinder chart
Subreport shows the Loan Count By Month
and the Loan Count By Quarter.

So, in summary, Stories 7-9 has
produced 3 Dashbords, the LTD
Dashboard, the Demographics Dashboard,
and the Overview Dashboard.

The LTD Dashboard shows a LTD Pie Chart
and 3 stacked column charts showing the
Count of Loans To Date by Purpose of
Loan, by Property Usage, and by Loan
Amount. 

The Demographics Dashboard has 4
stacked column charts showing Loans To
Date by Race, Marital Status, Sex, and
Age group.

The Overview Dashboard shows the MTD vs
Prior 6 Month Avg, the Last Mth vs
Prior 6 Mth Avg, and the QTD vs Last
Full Quarter, loans, the Avg Loan and
its % of Monthly Income By Month, and
the Loan Count By Month and the Loan
Count By Quarter.
