Tell me about your last project

I am currently working as a Microsoft
Power BI Developer with Guidant Global
and my current contracting assignment
is with a UK based, global talent
acquisition, and managed workforce
solution provider, as one of the Lead
Power BI developers. The company hires
and tracks hundreds of employees and
candidates who are contracting in
different States, all across the US,
monitoring the entire process end to
end, starting with requisition opening,
tracking quality and quantity of
submissions through various vendors,
monitoring the progress through the
selection process, tracking work
orders, start date and end date of the
assignment and so forth.

Using Microsoft Power BI, I have
implemented various data modeling,
visualization and reporting techniques.
I have loaded the data into Power BI
from various sources such as Excel
spreadsheet, SQL Server tables and
performed various transformations using
Query Editor. I have developed
actionable Key Performance Indicators
(KPI) such as vendor response time,
hire ratios, requisition fill time,
etc. using maps, line charts, cards,
ribbon charts, scatter plots and
different reporting layouts from the
Power BI Marketplace.

While developing these metrices, I have
gained experience with DAX to create
numerous complex calculated columns and
measures, data modeling, drill down
hierarchies, date-slicers, page level
and report level filters. And also,
publishing Power BI reports to the
Power BI Services, setting up gateways,
securities and permission level while
sharing reports. I have also
Incorporated new features such as Q&A,
sync slicers, bookmarks in Power BI
desktop.
