What is a Cube?

A cube is a method of storing 
data in a Multi-Dimensional 
format and most effective for 
Reporting purpose. The 
combination of the structure 
of the OLAP database and the 
Cube's multidimensional format
lends itself to greater query
performance than a relational
database, even for very large
volumes of data.

Cubes are essentially designed
for advanced Analytics and 
Reporting. Efficient Reporting
systems need high performance
data structures so the ODS 
database will not be enough.

Cubes are made of Fact and 
Dimension Tables. Dimension 
Tables are a group of 
Attributes, or Descriptive 
information about a product or
customer or thing. 

Dimension tables and fact 
tables can be arranged into 
different schemas like the 
star schema and snowflake 
schemas. The fact table holds 
mainly Foreign Keys pointing 
to the primary keys of the 
dimension tables plus columns
that have a numerical value 
that can be aggregated to 
provide meaningful value to 
a business, like sales by 
region, by day, week, month, 
or year, and so forth. 

The design of the cube is such
that the user can very quickly
navigate around the data, 
drilling down and slicing and 
dicing to find trends and spot
patterns, some of the key 
benefits of a cube. A good 
cube design allows the user to
intuitively wander around the
data, unaware of all the data
analysis being performed under
the hood.

In a recent project I worked 
on, I was involved in creating
a Cube in an OLAP data 
warehouse. Management wanted 
to gain a business edge by 
with the help of data analysis
and business reporting.

Developing the Cube entailed 
developing a multidimentional 
star schema which consisted 
of a fact table and many 
dimension tables.

This was a Mortgage Loan 
project, so the Dimension 
Tables had attributes like 
Borrower Firstname and 
lastname, email address, 
phone number, home address, 
and so forth. I developed 
attributes for the Loan 
Dimension, Property Dimension,
a Time Dimension, and so 
forth.

My Fact Table consisted mainly
of Foreign Key values and 
meaningful business centric, 
measureable data like loan 
values, purchase prices, 
income values, essentially 
values that could be of 
business use when aggregated.

After modelling my Fact and 
Dimension tables manually, I 
used SSAS to built my Cube, 
added a Time Dimension so the 
user would be free to wander 
around the Reports and do as 
much slicing and dicing of 
the data as they desired, by 
day, by week, by Month, 
Quarter, and Year.

My Loan Dimension had a Loan
Date field, so I use it as a 
Parameter for a Loan Report 
I developed using SSRS.

The power of the Star Schema,
Facts, Dimensions, and the 
Cube is undeniable, something 
every business or 
organization should take 
advantage of, given all that
it can produce.























